# monkeysmash

monkeysmash is a web app that uses symbolic natural language processing to pseudo-randomly generate surreal, abstract poems.  Symbolic natural language processing (symbolic nlp) is typically considered to be obsolete because of its inability to generate specific meanings when compared to machine-learning and neural-based nlp approaches-- however, in a surreal and abstract poem, this lack of specificity is a feature, not a bug.  The code to generate these poems is written in Rust, and hosted using the rouille web framework. The app uses an sqlite database to keep sets of words to be drawn from randomly by the rust code.  The front end of the app consists of plain html with css, designed to aesthetically harken back to Web 1.0 websites.

### Installation
This program requires a Rust installation to run. Install Rust [here](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install).

Once Rust is installed, navigate to monkeysmash/monkeysmash and run the command "cargo build" to compile the program.

### Usage
The program is designed to run based on specific arguments.

**Run Server**:  "cargo run s".  Starts the rouille server.  Once the server is running, navigate to localhost:8000 to run the app.

**Write Poem**:  "cargo run r".  Writes a poem to the command line, not to the web app.

**Build Database**:  "cargo run b".  Rebuilds the database based on input to words.csv.  To change the set of words monkeysmash is drawing from, edit src/words.csv (words and part of speech only) and rebuild  the database.  (Note: check handle_filing() in parser.rs for criteria on which words from words.csv will be inserted into the database.)

the program does not run without any runtime arguments.

### Structure
The Rust section of the app (in the folder src) adheres to the principles of Object Oriented Programming.

**main.rs** is the default file that is run.  Contains functions related to runtime argument interpretation and rouille server setup.

**fsm.rs** generates the poem from random words.

**dictionary.rs** handles all interactions with the sqlite database.

**parser.rs** draws words from words.csv.


The web front end of the app all runs inside the "web" folder.

**index.html** is the landing page.

**poem.html.template** is the template for the page poem.html that is generated by gen_poem_page() in main.rs.

**/images** contains images used in the website.